Overview Slide
A map that showcases the numerous location Whitey Bulger visited during his notorious criminal life and his time on the run from the FBI

Slide 1
In 1938 the Bulger family moved into the Mary Ellen McCormack Housing Project. It is here where James "Whitey" Bulger Jr. started his criminal lifestyle.

Slide 2
From an early age Bulger had run ins with the police being charged with assault, forgery, and armed robbery.
Despite this Bulger joined the Air Force in 1948. That is not to say his character improved. He was arrested multiple times for assault and for leaving without orders. 
Somehow he received an honorable discharge in 1952.

Slide 3
In 1956 Bulger was sent to Atlanta Penitentiary for armed robbery and hijacking a truck. This would be his first time in a federal prison but it would not be his last.
During his time in this prison Bulger has stated that he was a part of MK-Ultra, the government experiment where they researched mind-control drugs.

Slide 4
From 1956 to 1963 Bulger was transferred to three other prisons, the most notable being Alcatraz.

Slide 7
After his release in 1965 Bulger returned to South Boston with a venegeance. 
He became a loan shark for Donald Killeen, the head of the local mob. Shortly thereafter he committed his first murder, a member of a rival family. From there it snowballed.
At the time of his arrest he was charged with 19 murders, and was connected to many more.

Slide 8
Bulger, along with an associate, became FBI informants in 1974.
Though they used it to their advantage more then anything else. 
Bulger would give the FBI false, or incomplete information and in return they would give him useful information, like the names of actual informants and rivals locations. Their handler James Connolly was even arressted and charged with murder due to the information he gave out that resulted in the death of a federal informant.

Slide 9
Due to this ruthlessness and connections with the FBI, Bulger ruled the criminal underworld of Boston for decades. During this time Bulger committed murder after murder and ran the drug trade in South Boston.
Oddly enough despite his overall lack of morals he forbade the selling of  drugs to children and refused to sell PCP, anyone who did not follow this rule was violently driven out.

Slide 10
In April 1994 the DEA and local police launched a probe into Bulgers criminal enterprise. By know they had realized that the FBI was compromised and did not inform them of the investigation. In december of the same year they were prepared to arrest him but he was tipped off by Agent John Connolly and went on the run.

Slide 11
For 16 years Bulger was on the run. The first place he ran to was Selden, New York where he stayed for only a few days.

Slide 12
He then moved to the New Orleans French Quarter where he spent New Year's Day.

Slide 13
For the next few weeks he moved between New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco.

Slide 15
Throughout the years Bulger had reported sightings around the world. London, Uruguay, Italy, and even Canada. Despite the numerous sightings he wasn't captured until 2011 in Santa Monica, California

Slide 16
After being arrested Bulger was sent to Boston where he put on trial for 48 charges, which included murder, perjury, narcotics distribution, and money laundering.

Slide 17
Bulger is now incarcerated  in the Coleman II United States Penitentiary located in Sumterville, Florida. He was sentenced to 2 life imprisonments, plus five years.
After 16 years on the run  and decades of terror Whitey Bulger was finally behind bars for the last time.


